.\" syntax documented on (search on page):
.\" https://www.gnu.org/software/groff/manual/groff.html
.TH PTEF_REPORT 3

.SH NAME
ptef_report \- provides result-reporting functionality of the PTEF spec

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B  #include <ptef.h>
.PP
.BI "int ptef_report(char *" status ", char *" testname ", int " flags );
.PP
.BR "extern char *(*" ptef_status_colors ")[2];"
.fi
.PP
Link with \fI\-lptef\fP.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR ptef_report ()
implements the API of the results-reporting functionality described by the
Portable Test Execution Framework (PTEF) specification.
.PP
It takes
.I status
and 
.IR testname ,
transforming them into result lines, and outputting them to standard output
and (optionally) an
.B PTEF_RESULTS_FD
open file descriptor, as outlined in the PTEF specification.
.PP
.I flags
then provide a way to further parametrize the reporting:
.TP
.BR PTEF_NOLOCK
Do not lock outputs when writing results. Useful if you can guarantee that
any result reporting is done sequentially.
.TP
.BR PTEF_NOWAIT
Attempt to lock outputs, but do not wait if there is an active lock.
In such a case, \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set to
.BR EAGAIN .
.TP
.BR PTEF_RAWNAME
Output
.I testname
verbatim, without prepending
.BR PTEF_PREFIX .
Useful for implementing custom statuses with custom metadata in place of
a test name.
.PP
The
.I ptef_status_colors
variable points to a default set of colors to be used for PTEF result line
statuses. See
.BR ptef_runner (3)
for more details.

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success,
.BR ptef_report ()
returns 0. On failure, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
.PP
Additionally,
.BR ptef_report ()
writes details about the failure to standard error output.

.SH NOTES
.BR ptef_runner ()
is thread-safe during successful operation, but it outputs errors to standard
error output without locking and using
.BR strerror (3)
which is not thread-safe as it may use a global table of error descriptions,
which may be altered during runtime by another thread changing locale.
.PP
Furher, making changes to
.I ptef_status_colors
as a global variable is obviously not thread-safe and should be done prior to
.BR ptef_report (3)
usage in threads.

.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
.nh
.BR ptef_runner (3),
.BR ptef_mklog (3)

.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of the PTEF project, see
\%https://github.com/comps/ptef/
